# FISHBOT
This repository contains documentation for FIShBOT. This product is still under active development. Check back soon to see the latest and greatest. 

# Background
What is FIShBOT? Fishing Industry Shared Bottom Oceanographic Timeseries (FIShBOT) is a standardized in-situ gridded bottom temperature product derived from cooperative research data streams.
Why do we need FIShBOT? The oceanography of the northwest Atlantic is extremely dynamic. Remotely sensed products (satellite images) can only provide surface measurements of temperature and modeled bottom temperature products are often at coarse spatial scales which are not always representative of the habitats commercial species are exposed to. Researchers and the fishing community alike share the need to better understand and monitor ocean conditions in our region. 
How did we make FIShBOT? We combined in-situ bottom temperature data from three cooperative research programs that partner with commercial fishing vessels. All the data was filtered to include only records from bottom-fishing gears and standardized to a common spatial and temporal resolution. The resulting product is a daily grid where each grid cell (7km2/4.35mi2) contains the average of all the bottom temperature sensor measurements in a given day.

Disclaimer: This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
